# VideoGame-Security

- Jason Edwards
- Dhruv Patel
- Professor Apu Kapadia
- INFO - I430

## Introduction
Video games have many definitions. One definition is any game that requires electricity to play the game, another is that the game must utilize video technology like CRT. The definition that this paper will use is any game that utilizes a computer to play. This will be important later in the introduction and the rest of this paper. 
Video games today have become quite ubiquitous. According to the Pew research center, over 50% of adults play video games in America, and for young adults, it is over 80%. This was back in 2008. The US population was around 300 million. So approximately 120-150 million people played video games in the US in 2008. And that was just in the US. Video games are made and played across the entire world. Video games studios have set up shops in the UK, France, Russia, Japan, China, Egypt, and more, and They have developed and sold video games worldwide. With the introduction of smartphones and other mobile computers, a new market was created that is worth billions and is the fastest-growing part of the industry. Video games are everywhere, from computers, smartphones, smart TVs, smart fridges, and even graphing calculators.  Video games are played by millions and are a billion-dollar industry. 
This paper is insistent on the reach of video games because Video games have all the weaknesses of other applications, like word and such. They affect a large part of the population, particularly the younger population. Unlike other applications like Microsoft Word, which has support from Microsoft constantly, video games Don’t always have support from the company. They also use a vast amount of libraries which means The chance for Vulnerabilities increases exponentially. 
Approach (half page)
The paper will start by discussing attacks on video game distribution; more specifically, it will walk through how video games were initially distributed with delivery services and stores and how they evolved into online websites, and finally, how they moved into digital distribution networks (DDN’s). This paper also discusses how the next iteration of distribution solved some of the previous problems but introduced new ones. It also shows how unsafe each method can be. 
Next, the paper will discuss how online multiplayer games are where many attacks occur and how online multiplayer has severe weaknesses. Furthermore, how industry actions affect security servers and peer-to-peer connections. Finally, we will discuss how those weaknesses in multiplayer can affect both players and businesses.
	
## Survey of Existing Techniques/Solutions
Video games are being attacked through the distribution 
Like most applications, video games are not built into the hardware. Users have to acquire them somehow. The problem becomes how users can ensure the game’s integrity. Before the mainstream use of the internet, most applications like games had to be transferred to the computer with floppy disks and CDs. Those storage disks traveling from the software manufacturers through the shipping industry to the user will have multiple transfers and handoffs between individuals and parties. How can any manufacturer guarantee that the CD has not been tampered with or replaced with a malicious disk? The short answer is that they can’t guarantee that it has not been tampered with. Wrap the package in shrink wrap, the attacker can rewrap it. Put a tamper sticker on there, the attacker can place a new one. The attacker doesn’t even have to remove the game from the disk. One of the early computer viruses, Elk Cloner, could be attached to any game disk and infect the computer without changing how the game played. The success of Elk Cloner was due to how the floppy disk and software seemed to look and operate how it was expected to and how it waited for multiple playthroughs before enacting its attack. However, man-in-the-middle attacks with disks have become less effective in recent years. While CDs are still used today, they have mostly been replaced with online downloads and digital distribution networks (DDN’s). That doesn’t mean that the threat has gone away. Stores that resell used games have the potential to buy a malicious disk and pass it on to the new owner. While resellers typically test to ensure the disk still works, they won’t detect the virus if it is a patient virus-like Elk Cloner. 
However, with the size of video games increasing, disks became insufficient for delivering games to the user. Not to mention that it takes days for a game cd to be delivered to a store or home. Applications began to become available on websites for download. So naturally, video games followed. Being able to purchase a videogame online significantly reduced all those risks associated with someone tampering with the videogame in transfer. If an attacker tried to edit or change the packet in flight to a router, it would read it as packet corruption and drop it. If an attacker tried to repackage the packet and send a malicious packet it would take too long, and secure connections would detect that packet. This is also not to mention that many video games and other large applications started to use downloaders, small applications that help download, ensure data integrity, and set up for said applications. So are video games safe from Man-in-the-middle attacks? No, no, they are not.
One part of Man-in the middle attacks is where an attacker pretends to be one of the trusted parties. This can be accomplished by making a fake website from which an infected game or malicious file can be downloaded. Fake websites are typically made with a name that looks close to the actual name of the original, like videogame.com to Vidoegame.com (). If they want a lock symbol from the browser to make it look more official, they buy a certificate for amzaon.com, which verifies it as amzaon.com (notice the misspelling). Now all the attacker has to do is make it look similar to the original website and place a download link for the virus of their choice. 
Digital distribution networks (DDNs) became the video game industry standard for both consoles and PC. With DDNs, creators of games will have accounts or pages where they can sell their games. A great example of DDN for PC is Steam. For consoles like Xbox and PlayStation, they would have the Xbox Game Store and Playstation Store, respectively. For mobile devices like smartphones, the DDNs would be the App Store (Apple) and Google Play Store (Android). A general focus of DDNs is Copyright protection, they have a vested interest in making their platform a safe place for companies to sell their game. If a game is copied or resold with malware, the DDNs will viciously delete them because their customers (companies and players) Will move to another platform where it is safer to sell/play games.
Companies will also be looking for illegal and/or malicious copies because any money going to those illegal copies will be taking money away from the company. This will also hurt the customers of that company, who are their future customers. However, this is not the end all be all because there is another question that now must be asked: how can you possibly trust the seller of an original game? If the person who made the game is malicious or accidentally programs vulnerabilities into the code, then. No matter how actively a DDN pursues copies, they will not be able to hunt down bugs and issues in game code with the same efficiency. Not to mention all of those systems, like searching for similar names, content, images, and video files, will not help a malicious user. Steam is used only to allow verified companies to post video games on their platform. Only companies who have created video games before us can sell or post on their platform. This made the barrier to entry for malicious users extremely high because not only did they have to create multiple games (or a game that was so critically acclaimed that steam would allow you to sell on their platform)then they had to present it to steam weight an indeterminate amount of time to be approved then they would be allowed to sell a game with a payload. With the rise of independent games in recent years, where small companies or individuals design and build games with modern tools, steam was now missing out on a large amount of revenue for game sales likewise those independent developers wanted to be able to sell on Steam, so steam changed the rules. Nowadays, Steam allows any user with a Steam account to post video games on their platform. And a Steam account is free. This means the barrier to entry for malicious users had all but disappeared. One solution for this problem is to scan games that are on steam. The problem with scanning games on steam is that the scanner will only be able to detect Viruses And vulnerabilities that have already been discovered. So if the vulnerability has not been made known to the scanner, then it will not be able to find that vulnerability.
Furthermore, with how different each game ends and how different each base code could be (Java, C, C++, C#, Rust, GDScript Python, etc.), not to mention the variety of compilers that come with each language and the possibilities of false positives becomes very high. Not to mention that this Has to be run on every game on Steam. If the false positive rate is too high, programmers Will not be able to check every detection report. This also doesn’t help a Programmer who made a game. Still, it’s not knowledgeable enough about the programming language to solve the problem presented by the scanner means that it’s not going to get solved anyway. The programmer might move to a different distribution Network or website where they can sell the game. 

## Users experiencing Remote Code Execution (RCE)  through videogame networks
One of the most dangerous attacks is a successful remote code execution (RCE) attack. This attack can be accomplished through video games. More specifically, through video games with multiplayer online. What typically happens is that video games will have a vulnerability not intentionally but because of the many libraries the game relies on. A great example of this is Minecraft. Minecraft was written in Java and relies on many of the built-in functions in Java. Java had a huge vulnerability with log4j. Log4j was a logging software That Java had built in That had a similar weakness to SQL where if you input A certain string, you could escape the input, and everything you type would now be read as a command. That is a terrible issue, but this game was multiplayer, and servers would allow other players to connect. Then they could simply type into the chat a malicious command, and anyone who received the command would be hacked. Since the company relies on Java, Java on each individual’s computer had to be updated and not the game meaning The game company could not send a patch that could fix the problem. 

## Availability issues in online gaming:
Online gaming uses network traffic, which a gaming console can use to communicate with the server or other consoles or devices to establish a peer-to-peer connection. Along with these, there are thousands of websites that give the facility of online gaming. As online gaming is increasing rapidly, the security of their assets is one of the most important things for gaming industries. A denial of service attack is one of the most dangerous attacks that can block some important assets and be a huge loss to the industry. In denial-of-service attacks, attackers bombard a large number of packets to the targeted asset, and due to having overloaded requests, it can crash the game, or it can make the process slower. Most of these attacks are DDoS attacks which mean Distributed Denial of service attacks, which perform this attack using a botnet; “A botnet (short for “robot network”) is a network of computers infected by malware that is under the control of a single attacking party, known as the “bot-herder.” Each machine under the control of the bot-herder is known as a bot. From one central point, the attacking party can command every computer on its botnet to simultaneously carry out coordinated criminal action. The scale of a botnet (many comprised of millions of bots) enables the attacker to perform large-scale actions previously impossible with malware. Since botnets remain under the control of a remote attacker, infected machines can receive updates and change their behavior on the fly. As a result, bot-herders are often able to rent access to segments of their botnet on the black market for significant financial gain.”(What is a botnet? 2022)  Let's say it will slow down the network traffic; it is not a big issue when sending or accessing a file. It might take some more time, but eventually, you will get the requested data. However, in online gaming, if you are playing games like Fortnite and you are building something because of the delay, it takes one or two seconds of delay; you cannot afford it because it will allow the opponent team to take over. Similar things can happen when you play games like Counter-Strike or Call of Duty, you press a button to kill your competitor. If it takes one or two seconds of delay, you will be the victim, and you might lose the game. 

## Suggestions
To solve the distribution issues with physical media like CDs and such, most of the issues from games going to the company to the user rely upon the delivery service. Video game companies must use trusted groups rather than allowing individuals to deliver the games. While it is impossible to completely get rid of the threat of package interception and mutation, Having video games wrapped in saran wrap with tamper-resistant stickers and having the game in a nondescript box while shipping will reduce the chance of a malicious actor being able to find and make the game look like it has not been tampered with. With online stores, the User needs to know that a lock symbol does not guarantee that the site is safe and that the user should always double-check that the website they’re buying from is where others have purchased the game And that who The user is buying it from is a trusted party. Either through checking reviews and ensuring that the game is safe, we’re looking at their other work from that company, ensuring that the company is in good standing With the community.
On the topic of being attacked through video game networks, it is important to realize that every time a user goes online, they run into the chance of an undiscovered vulnerability being used as an attack against them. Therefore all users should understand that the computer the video game is on is less secure. If important information is on that computer, users risk losing that data. For a computer that belongs to a company/organization where information and security are key, then you should not install video games on that computer at all. Individuals who wish to play games should consider moving their valuable data to a machine that does not have video games and make a backup. 
On the topic of DDoS attacks, some recommendations are that the First thing that a gamer can use is to use a VPN that hides your IP address. In VPN, all your network traffic goes to the VPN server first, and then it comes to you. So if even has been attacked, the attack will first affect the VPN server. Don’t click external links from the game or community chats like discord. Reset your IP address regularly. The main key is not to let the attacker know your IP address. As we say, security starts from home; one of the most important steps is to make your home network secure because you will be dependent on the home network for playing games. Keeping security software on your devices up to date. Avoid cheat tools sometimes you are not affected by DoS attacks, but your computer can serve as a bot in an attack, and you might be in trouble  Another question that comes up in gamers' minds is what to do when you are attacked. The simple answer is to turn off everything, including your router and computer, and reset your home network configuration. 

## Conclusions
In conclusion,  video games are popular. It is an industry that reaches out and affects many people. More specifically, video games reach out to people who are not tech-literate, And who need to be made aware of the security threats that are present. It is important to inform them that video games Have more security threats than most applications, that individual research, as well as industry research for people who make games, should be aware of what security threats there are and that more research should be done into minimizing them. This is not a paper telling you to avoid video games or never play them again. This is a paper about how people and industry should take more active steps in Preventing attacks and vulnerabilities because these applications have more security threats the most. 
In summary, individuals should check where they are getting their games from and if it is safe. They should check if their video games are up-to-date and any software that the video game relies upon. For the industry, large companies should pay very close attention to new security threats and report them to code scanners and should hire individuals who specialize in security. Small companies and individuals who make games should be aware of how their programming can lead to security threats and steps they should take with the help of larger companies and code scanners to reduce those threats.

## Bibliography
- Computerphile. Log4J & JNDI Exploit: Why So Bad? - Computerphile. An in-depth explanation of Log4j and its relation to JNDI. 22 December 2021. Youtube, Computerphile, https://youtu.be/Opqgwn8TdlM.Accessed 30 April 2022.
- “Elk Cloner.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 4 Jan. 2022, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elk_Cloner.
- Hammond, John. “CVE-2021-44228 - LOG4J - Minecraft Vulnerable! (and so Much More).” YouTube, YouTube, 11 Dec. 2021, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7qoPDq41xhQ. Accessed 12/3/2022.
- Lenhart, Amanda, et al. “Adults and Video Games.” Pew Research Center: Internet, Science &amp; Tech, Pew Research Center, 30 May 2020, https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2008/12/07/adults-and-video-games/.
- McKeever, G., & Weaver, P. (2021, July 13). Game over: How to stop ddos attacks on online gamers: Imperva. Imperva. Retrieved December 8, 2022, from https://www.imperva.com/blog/game-over-how-to-stop-ddos-attacks-on-online-gamers/
- Sutherland, R. (2021, April 24). How to avoid ddos attacks when gaming. Tom's Guide. Retrieved December 8, 2022, from https://www.tomsguide.com/news/how-to-avoid-ddos-attacks-when-gaming
- van Summeren, Rens. "Security in online gaming." RadboundUniversity Nijmegen: Bachelor Thesis Information Science (2011).
- What is a botnet? Palo Alto Networks. (2022). Retrieved December 8, 2022, from https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-botnet 
- Zhao, Chen. "Cyber security issues in online games." AIP Conference Proceedings. Vol. 1955. No. 1. AIP Publishing LLC, 2018. https://aip.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1063/1.5033679
https://www.oneupsecurity.com/research/remote-code-execution-in-source-games/
